there is sometimes a recommendation or
an instinct just like ship things super
super quickly and get them out there and
I'm not saying don't move fast obviously
you need to move fast in the early days
but like make sure someone rereads your
email so that it sounds good
invest in having like a decent photo or
a decent illustration if you have sample
content this is actually a big one
sample content for your productivity app
as an example take the time to not have
it be like Jane Doe 12 times in the name
list have it be references to your
industry so that people are like oh hey
that's a joke about Steve Jobs I'm a
designer this person is thinking about
me it's small stuff but it tells that
person like the people who worked on
this were thinking about me as a
customer they built it with me in mind
and that means that it is more likely
this is going to fit my needs than
something generic and that builds up
both the brand trust that we've talked
about but also through the personality
of the company and makes people want to
root for you and frankly when you are
small you need everyone looking for you
that you can possibly get
welcome to Lenny's podcast where I
interview world-class product leaders
and growth experts to learn from their
hard-wing experiences building and
scaling today's most successful
companies today my guest is a well egner
zowell was one of the earliest employees
at airtable where she led their early
marketing and customer success teams and
generally just helped airtable grow into
the legendary business that it is today
she also spent time in box she's advised
dozens of startups on marketing and
growth and is now head of marketing and
growth at a startup called block party
in our conversation zoelle shares how to
punch above your weight as a startup up
the most effective and impactful growth
and marketing tactics throughout
airtables history including their use of
billboards marketing Investments that
are often High Roi and those that are
rarely a good use of time why PR
launches are actually useful to startups
and also when they aren't and a lot more
it was so much fun chatting with zoelle
and I am really excited for you to learn
from her with that I bring you zoell
hegner after a short word from our
wonderful sponsors
today's episode is brought to you by one
schema the embeddable CSV importer for
stats customers always seem to want to
give you their data in the messiest
possible CSV file and building a
spreadsheet importer becomes a
never-ending sync for your engineering
and support resources you keep adding
features to your spreadsheet importer
with customers keep running against the
issues six months later you're fixing
yet another date conversion Edge case
bug most tools aren't built for handling
messy data but once schema is companies
like scale Ai and paid are using one
schema to make it fast and easy to
launch delightful spreadsheet import
experiences from embeddable CSV import
to importing csvs from an SFTP folder on
a recurring basis spreadsheet import is
such an awful experience in so many
products customers get frustrated by
useless messages like error on line 53
and never end up getting started with
your product one schema intelligently
corrects messy data so that your
customers don't have to spend hours in
Excel just to get started with your
product for listeners of this podcast
one schema is offering a one thousand
dollar discount learn more at
oneschema.com
this episode is brought to you by Pando
the always-on employee performance
platform how much do you love the
performance review process
yeah it's time consuming subjective
biased and there's rarely any
transparency with the rapid shift to
distributed work it's a struggle to
create the structure and transparency
that you want to help your employees
have the highest impact and growth in
their careers hando is disrupting the
old Paradigm of Performance Management
including a continuous employee-centric
approach to employees to engage see the
progression in real time and know
exactly when and how they can level up
with Pando managers can leverage
competency-based Frameworks to
effectively coach and develop their
teams and align on consistent growth
standards resulting in higher quality
feedback and higher performing teams
visit pando.com Lenny for more info and
get a special discount when you sign up
and reference this podcast that's
pando.com Lenny
[Music]
so well welcome to the podcast
hi thanks for having me it's very much
my pleasure something that is pretty
cool is that we actually met in my
newsletter slack Community I actually
looked this up of how we actually
started chatting and it was me cold
dming you to get a discount on airtable
for the newsletter subscribers and you
very happily got me that hooked us up
and then you became my go-to air table
person for like advice on what airtable
did right and wrong over the years and
so thank you for being that person and
also I'm really excited to have you on
this podcast and to learn from you I am
super excited to chat awesome so you're
probably best known for your time at
airtable which correct me if I'm wrong
you're employee number 11. that's right
okay and at our table you let marketing
you led the customer success teams so
we're gonna chat about all that stuff
but before we get into that I want to
chat briefly about this other project
that you worked on that from the outside
felt like a really fascinating thing and
a really impactful project and a really
cool team and it's called vaccine in
California I think is how you pronounce
okay can you just talk a little bit
about what this was like what what were
you trying to do what was the impact you
had how did it all go yeah absolutely so
vaccinate CA existed to help people in
California find and get a coveted
vaccine as quickly as possible and that
sounds really trivial right now but you
have to sort of wind back to January of
2020 when vaccines were first coming out
and it was really hard so just as a
reminder because most of us have blocked
that from our memory uh yeah the federal
and state systems like didn't really
exist yet and so everything was this
horrible hodgepodge where eligibility
depended on not only like what state you
were in it was down to the county and
even sometimes the individual facility
like you would be at a Walgreens and
talk to them and they'd be like oh you
have to be over 65 and also in one of
these like 12 categories of employment
in order to get a vaccine and then you
go like a mile away and they would tell
you something totally different so
people would stand in line for hours
there were phones going off the hook
utterly Madness and really really scary
for a lot of people who are trying to
figure out like how to how to keep
themselves safe yeah I remember those
days well yeah so this organization was
founded essentially by a tweet by
Patrick McKenzie for those of you who
are on Hacker News patio 11 and he had
basically this really simple premise
which is if you call a pharmacist and
you ask them who they can give a vaccine
to and what vaccine they have and then
you put that answer on a map someone
else doesn't have to make the same phone
call and that takes lots of pressure
also as a healthcare system and also
like helps people to sort of match
supply and demand
so surprisingly somehow that like tweet
which is essentially like call people
put in spreadsheet put online turned
into an entire full non-profit that was
mostly on Discord Zoom Air table and not
only had this entire like hundreds of
volunteers who are making phone calls uh
in the state of California and
eventually actually nationally we became
vaccinate the state eventually we were
also doing this thing called Web Banking
so we would go and scrape all the
official sources as they started coming
out and then validate them because they
were not always correct and eventually
we had the most comprehensive database
uh and map of locations in the entire
country including more comprehensive
than the federal government in most of
the states because they had really
complicated limitations on what they
couldn't couldn't publish based on some
relationships they had we didn't have
those limitations so it meant that we
became this like kind of Clearinghouse
essentially for this information
um and we built an API uh we were
working directly with Google and if you
ever looked up like vaccine locations on
Google Maps that was us feeding that to
them which was really cool and we also
made Maps you could see on like County
websites that would help you understand
what was available in your area
one of the like coolest things that I've
ever worked on so okay that's exactly I
imagined how epic this was just to make
sure people understand what you're
describing basically you had hundreds of
people sitting there on phones calling
vaccine locations getting the specifics
of who is able to get a vaccine there
and then just giving people a pointer of
where they can get a vaccine exactly
exactly so I came in initially a
colleague of mine at airtable had been
helping out with the like building out
of the back end and I started getting
media attention and they thought oh like
this will help more people understand
that this resource is available so I got
brought in to do some like PR help
basically help them figure out how to
get the word out and then ended up
actually quitting my job at airtable to
work on it full time oh wow yeah I was
on the board and also managing sort of
all Outreach and other stuff so we did
lots of really cool education helping
people understand like their eligibility
at all build a bunch of fun tools for
that as well but it was it was a pretty
incredible six months where we filmed
like a really critical Gap in the
infrastruct structure of the country
it's wild that that was the best
solution is just call people and create
you and I imagine there was an air table
was it was were you using to store the
data oh yes we built uh an entire like
insane database and then eventually like
custom software on top of that to make
the people who are making the phone
calls more easily get the information in
there's a whole thing very cool to see
though not just like tech people get
involved we had in our volunteer base
like people from absolutely every Walk
of Life not just in California globally
I remember there was a volunteer who
like
said that he decided to join he was
based in Israel and he had had like no
trouble getting the vaccine whatsoever
but it seen something on Twitter about
it and just decided like he wanted to
make sure that people were able to get
the vaccine as easily as he did and he
spent dozens of hours calling folks even
though he was in a totally different
time zone but it really like lovely to
sort of see all these different people
retired teachers you know like I think
we had a bunch of 12 year olds who are
helping out on the code of all things
all who just really wanted to make sure
that they could keep their Community
safe what happened with this
organization it's like a non-profit that
now continues to run or what's happening
no we we did something which is not
common we actually decided to shut it
down after six months partially that's
because the existing system finally
caught up and frankly we didn't want to
be in a place where we were pulling away
resources that could be put towards
other things are going to be more
impactful we always saw ourselves as a
stock Gap and once we got to the place
where we felt like we weren't really
being additive we wanted to get people's
time back so they could work on other
things so it doesn't exist anymore I
think you can still go check out the
archive
um we found some researchers who are
doing like interesting research on it
because there's very fascinating data in
there about sort of
the equitability of some of the
distribution of the vaccine based on
where it was available but the
organization is gone we had that
beautiful moment in time and and have
all moved on uh hoping we don't have to
get the band back together yes hopefully
hopefully it's not necessary anymore oh
man I'm watching The Last of Us right
now about this
mushroom mushroom-based uh disease and
that scares me now yep anyway on this
podcast I try to get to things people
learn from these experiences and so I
have to ask what you learn about forming
something like this just like ad hoc
like pulling a bunch of people together
and having them focus and get things
done or just like scaling it or even
shutting down I guess what what have you
taken away from that experience that you
maybe will bring to either future
one-off things like this or even just
your work in general yeah I'd say
probably three things so one the the
incredible power of sort of a simple
idea to bring people together one of the
reasons why vaccine ACA was so powerful
and got so many people to help is
everybody immediately understood why it
would be useful and how they
specifically could be making a
difference and combining those two
things was an incredible way to bring a
lot of people on board very quickly
because from a messaging perspective
messaging you know something very
important to me as a marketer it was so
concise right like pick up phone help
save lives really straightforward people
really really got that it sort of
allowed them to feel like they had
agency in a time when everything felt
really really out of control I think
there's a lot of opportunities we have
to sort of activate our communities and
give people that sense of control that
like are both going to be helpful more
broadly for society but also um just for
those individuals as well to make them
feel a little bit more safe a little bit
more like they can actually have a
difference in things uh you know I think
in Tech we often don't jump into these
problems this was not like sophisticated
technology it was phones Discord and
like airtable mostly being used like a
spreadsheet right like it wasn't it
wasn't anything wild even that very
simple infrastructure was enough to make
a huge difference and we have some
evidence that like we saved a lot of
lives as a result of it which is pretty
pretty special so I think part of it is
also just saying like
we don't have to be hesitant to jump
into these problems it's important to
engage with you know experts in the
field is not to say that like tax
solutionism is always the answer and
again this is not super sophisticated
technology but because we were able to
go in and like talk to people who are
actually affected get in just for the
system that already existed and make
something really simple really fast it
actually did have a huge difference and
that's really exciting just to double
click on that one actually reminds me
some founders of companies I've invested
in I often hear how much easier it is
for companies that have a mission that
people are excited about for them to
hire versus companies that don't and so
it's a really good reminder of just the
power of having a mission and a vision
that is really compelling to people
versus you know some B2B software that
people aren't excited about even though
there's great reasons to upgrade B2B
software a lot of B2B there are I love
great B2B software I've spent like most
of my career on it but I I agree with
you I think if you have an authentic
Mission and people aren't just like oh
sure okay you're connecting the world
like the real really it's you know some
like telephony startup like okay if
people feel like it's genuinely
authentic to what you're building uh it
can be incredibly meaningful yeah I'm
just I just remember a Founder who's
just like he is the second company's
first company did not have an amazing
Mission the second one did wow so much
easier to hire for this new service so
totally absolutely okay number two and
three number two and three I'll try and
be more brief it's all good number two I
would say just the importance of like a
relentlessly repeating the exact same
stuff over and over again even if you
feel like everyone definitely knows this
is something that I've seen play out in
every single leadership role that I've
had but it was never more acute than
here particularly because we had this
sort of broad Coalition of hundreds of
people with very different backgrounds
some people coming to the meeting some
people not whatever else I think I
repeated the same like three talking
points but why what we were doing
mattered
like five thousand times cannot over
emphasize how many times I said the same
stuff and so did every other member of
the board it really is important and it
really people will fill in the blanks
with totally wild things if you don't
continuously have that discipline of
repeating yourself you just have to like
get used to saying the same stuff and if
you do it correctly it's super
motivating even if you're sitting there
being like Oh my gosh I have to say it
again it's worth it this reminds me I
don't know where I saw this it's just in
my head right now that the CEO and
Founders job their actual title is
repeater in Chief it absolutely should
be I've worked with some leaders who
never wanted to they're like no this is
like it's gonna be boring for people and
you just have to be like honestly most
people are never listening as much as
you think that they are yeah we wish
that they would but you have to say it
like 12 different ways in writing and
out loud all this other stuff it's like
you're you're never as important as you
think you are unfortunately right oh
these are great lessons Okay what else
what else you do I say my last learning
it was really about the power of having
like a laughably small MVP for something
by the end of this right we were
covering the entire United States we had
an API we had like custom software on
the front end this whole like kind of
Behemoth of stuff that we got to in you
know four months or something in the
beginning it was truly basically a
spreadsheet on like phones and that was
it
even that for the first few weeks while
we were getting the rest of the
infrastructure really going not only had
tremendous impact at one of the most
important parts in the pandemic but also
gave us so much information about we
actually needed to build that was going
to be helpful and I remember having all
of these sort of assumptions about what
was going to be necessary to manage this
Coalition of people to make sure that we
had really good data quality because one
of the most important things you can do
if you're trying to be a trusted source
of truth is actually have the correct
information sounds trivial is not at all
at that scale and I was totally wrong
about all my assumptions you know I
thought we were going to have to have
totally different types of oversight I
thought we were going to have totally
different tooling and it turned out we
could do something way lighter weight
that would allow us to move much faster
as like the regulatory landscape kept
changing has all the like rulemaking at
individual places kept changing and that
agility that willingness to do just like
the smallest possible thing is obviously
a little bit of a Trope in the industry
people talk about it a lot but it's
never been driven home to me so much
because we're talking about something
that had incredibly high stakes this is
People's Health and we're still able to
do it in that context so if we could do
it there you can imagine that the
applications of that in other Industries
are just tremendous so
yeah if you're if you're listening to
this and you were thinking maybe you
needed to add more stuff I bet you could
prune
and it's nice to have the forcing
function where the world is changing so
quickly and the team's probably small
where you kind of are forced to build
small which I think is why this reminder
is so important like oftentimes you have
more resources and you end up building
more just because you can and yeah what
you're saying is oftentimes I'll shoot
you in the foot yes amazing I didn't
expect to get into this much detail with
vaccinates here and so uh so I'm glad we
did let's zoom out a little bit and just
fill in some gaps on your background
briefly you can just highlight some of
the other wonderful things you've done
in career your table we talked about
vaccinesia just broadly what else what
else have you been up to absolutely okay
so I'll try and be brief I worked in
tech for more than a decade mostly
marketing and customer success a little
bit of Ops
before I got into Tech I was a little
bit of a dilettante so some non-profit
Healthcare dying big box retail because
I graduated right into the recession and
I'm certain no one would hire me turns
out that was actually wrong but on the
plus side now I know what dysfunction
looks like at Great scale which is
actually quite an education and very
useful
um but I always knew I wanted to get
into Tech um partially because I'm from
the Bay Area and partially because I had
been sort of obsessively power mapping
the industry and like looking at its
blocking patterns and like who had what
types of influence because I'm a nerd
and I really wanted to see if I could
get in in the first place wait can you
talk about this this which what is it
you did what did you call a flocking
pattern
start so you can imagine in any
Community there are sort of like nodes
of influence people who know a lot of
folks they have money whatever it might
be and they're able to direct how that
Community or that ecosystem evolves
right so um in the tech industry
typically like zcs will often play a
role in this but so will certain types
of Executives and you can follow how
they move between different companies
and who they worked with and then see
that that influences like who gets
investment in the future it influences
different Partnerships that evolve it
influences the sort of like assumed
wisdom in various different careers and
because I'm a big old nerd I was like
literally drawing diagrams based on
people's blog posts of like it was
influential in what way because I was
non-technical like I I tried you know
programming and I hated it frankly and
so I was like okay it's 2010 it's 2011
there's if not queer ways to get into
the industry as a non-technical person I
need to figure out how to do this with
people because otherwise I'm not sure
why someone would take a chance on me
with what I have done historically and
that sounds a little insane but it's
very effective and I ended up getting my
start in Tech basically by identifying a
company where I thought I had sort of a
unique set of connections or like
understanding of the space they were
working on where I thought I could maybe
like email the CEO and be helpful and if
this connect to that diagram you drew
like did this help you point in that
direction yeah yeah absolutely so like I
was I was closely tracking my combinator
and like that whole ecosystem so I knew
I wanted to find a smaller company where
they maybe were having more difficulty
hiring because they were less well-known
or a little bit less like sexy but while
they were still connected into that
broader sort of group because it has
with the pedigree that people would take
you seriously if you had worked at a YC
back to Startup right anyway I got like
really pointy hat strategic about this
but it was effective we still have this
diagram by the way it'd be so funny to
look at it right now no no I don't think
I have it anymore I might be able to dig
it up but uh alas I think it it may have
been lost in one of my many moved since
it's been a problem decade okay I
imagine that was true okay so I think I
cut you off you had you were talking
about some of the things you've done in
your career yeah so I ended up sort of
using my studies of the space to get
into a role as in play one at a
developer Focus if I see back to Startup
and the funny story on that is that I
got that role by Cold emailing the CEO
while I was still in college and then he
actually followed up with me almost
immediately because I offered to
introduce him to some professors which
was useful for the the type of business
and then I ignored him for two years
because I got busy with my thesis and
got other jobs and whatever a student
came back to it and wrote this like
ridiculous apology email being like I
promise I respond to emails faster I see
that you're hiring like would you give
me a second chance please can I come
work for you I have no experience that's
useful but like I work really hard and I
figured he would either laugh me off of
the internet or give me a job and very
fortunately for me he gave me so thanks
Ryan appreciate that uh that was how I
got into Tech right yes we appreciate it
so that startup got acquired by box and
when I went over to box they had never
had paying developers before uh so we
were bringing over like seven figure
contracts so I started developer success
programs there and then in a totally
wild shift ended up moving over to run
their social media editorial and
internal comms which doesn't sound
related to developer success but I had
always been a writer and I wrote this
blog post about what it was like to be
an early stage non-technical employee it
was a little spicy talking about some of
the challenges I didn't tell anyone I
was gonna do it and I got this email
from PR being like we need to have a
meeting and I was like oh they're gonna
fire me I went too far I thought I was
being like you know circumspect I went
too far and in the meeting they were
like hey we really think you should
apply for this job we would love to have
you run social media which is not the
outcome I expected that's a cool
learning there just like do stuff yeah
don't be afraid yeah it was definitely
not the expected outcome but one that
was very exciting so got to uh go run
those programs for a couple years
through the IPO uh which is a whole
education in and of itself to see sort
of how comms changes when you become a
public company and then I was on Hacker
News obsessively at the time and I saw
the beta for airtable come out
immediately signed up and became
obsessed with the product and like
evangelizing it to everybody that I knew
and ultimately ended up figuring out a
way to like finagle my way into uh that
role as employee 11 there it sounds like
we're going to talk about your table
more so I won't belabor that but
marketing and customer success staff I
ended up leaving for vaccinate CA and
then the last little bit here is just
when that ended I really thought I
wanted to start my own company so I gave
myself like a certain window in which to
try out different ideas and at the same
time with sort of advising and
Consulting ultimately didn't end up
finding anything that I felt like so
much conviction that it was worth like
blowing up absolutely everything else
about my life uh in order to go heads
down on a company So eventually decided
to go in-house one of the companies I've
been advising block party and now I run
marking a griffin can you just explain
the block party briefly absolutely so
we're an online safety company uh we
help users have more control over their
digital experience and our first product
is anti-harassment and anti-spam tools
for Twitter so you've worked at box
airtable and block party you advised a
lot of companies
around marketing product with growth
I'm curious if there's a thread that has
kind of maintained through all of those
experiences in terms of what works well
for marketing and grows and and things
you've learned that just consistently
a few pieces that go into how I choose
companies that create that bread and
part of this is about me wanting to sort
of match what I think I'm really good at
with what will have the greatest
leverage for a company that I work at so
I've mentioned like I'm a writer I
really care about telling stories and
like helping people to understand new or
novel things I also really care about
product quality I'm like a little bit of
a product snob and one of my sort of
strengths is enthusiasm so if I can't
genuinely go to a customer and tell them
like this product is going to solve a
real problem for you and it's going to
be amazing like I kind of can't do my
job so all of the companies that I've
chosen to go to have had this Foundation
of an incredible product experience that
maybe people didn't fully understand and
where I could come in and help connect
the dots between
that amazing product that's gonna be
really really helpful and sort of the
opportunities for a much wider range of
people to benefit from that so and
practice what that means is I often end
up working at companies that are in a
position to really punch above their
weight from a brand perspective they're
typically much lower head count than you
would ever expect they're typically a
way earlier stage than you would expect
but I've been able to sort of put
together a brand or an experience that
allows people to invest themselves into
the company with a high level of trust I
guess to like I'll be more specific
because that's really ambiguous
irritable it manages Mission critical
workflows highly sensitive data it's
super important you only use tools you
can trust for that type of thing the
same thing is true at Brock party right
like Online safety you have to trust the
company that you're uh interesting your
safety to and in my experience people
and especially Founders really
underestimate how much every single
touch point of her customer has from
word of mouth or the ad that brings them
the door landing pages sign up flows
customer service experiences every
single one of those moments is building
a brand that is adding or removing Trust
so for me in the early days that means
thinking about like what are the signals
that I can provide to Future customers
that say we understand you specifically
and our solution is designed for a
person like you
and two that will say hey we're actually
operating on a much higher level than
you might expect for a company of our
size or our stage we take this really
seriously we have all the things in
place to take care of you so you
shouldn't be afraid to spend you know
six figures or like put put your safety
in our hands because we've got your back
we're doing this the right way has
tremendous dividends when you're in a
business that is often driven by word of
mouth because if you take care of people
and you follow up that sort of brand
experience with a product experience
that is really powerful and actually
does the things it says it's going to do
then your word of mouth can sort of
become a huge driver of growth for the
company
of course the outcome of this in
practice is really funny so like I
remember really distinctly having to
invite customers to go out to lunch with
us when they would come to San Francisco
back in the air table days because we
had like 15 people in a teeny tiny
office it's not that I wanted to mislead
anyone but I didn't need to like
reinforce the fact they were sending six
figures with us when we had 15 people
like if they had gone to live on
LinkedIn they could have figured that
out but like they don't need to remind
them that we were so small and they were
like running some of their most
important processes with our product I
like I think I was on the phone with
slack at one point and they were like oh
well you guys are probably about the
same size company as we are right and I
was like not quite a little smaller
just an entire order of magnitude no big
deal it's totally fine we're awesome
we'll take care of you it's gonna be
great but it really it makes a
difference you know although all those
little things that reminds me I heard
stories of early like very earlier
Airbnb days where they had to take
meetings in a bathroom or in the hallway
yeah they did interviews like in the
hallway because we did a lot of calling
from the hallway and airtable uh also
from this like weird internal patio you
could only get two through climbing
through a window the window kept
breaking and so like I at one point
remember someone like getting stuck
outside trying to interview someone with
like the wind gloves like utter utter
like ridiculous nonsense but you know
that's all the fun things that happened
in the early days before you become
bigger yeah I love those early days
stories yeah I really love the concept
of punching above your weight as a
startup
what else did you do at airtable or
other places that helped you do that so
one is just don't don't let them see how
small you are necessarily are there any
other technical things you recall that
like oh here's things that really work
really well for punching above our
weight as a small company at that point
a couple of these things are like very
unsexy but very useful one like
make sure that your landing pages and
your emails and other things have like a
level of polish that makes them feel a
little bit more
done like I think there is sometimes a
recommendation or an instinct to like
ship things super super quickly and get
them out there and I'm not saying don't
move fast obviously you need to move
fast in the early days but like make
sure someone rereads your email so that
it sounds good like invest in having
like a decent photo or a decent
illustration if you have sample content
this is actually a big one sample
content for your productivity app as an
example take the time to not have it be
like Jane Doe 12 times in the name list
have it be references to your industry
so that people are like oh hey that's a
joke about Steve Jobs I'm a designer
this person is thinking about me it's
small stuff but it tells that person
like the people who worked on this were
thinking about me as a customer they
built it with me in mind and that means
that it is more likely this is going to
fit my needs and something generic and
that builds up both the brand trust that
we've talked about but also through the
personality of the company and makes
people want to root for you and frankly
when you are small you need everyone
looking for you that you can possibly
get so those little bits of polish that
don't take a ton of time are absolutely
worth it the last thing I would say is
making sure that in your public
Communications launches if you ever talk
to press which you know some companies
can some companies can't having more of
a point of view than just about your
product you can try and say like we are
part of something bigger here is the
broader Circle or movement that we are a
part of it makes it feel more inevitable
and more like you are
you're not just sort of like
self-servedly talking about you know
your tiny corner of the world but that's
actually part of this much bigger Trend
it will be more compelling and it feels
like you're operating at a different
level of sophistication that can be
really helpful I love that on the first
point basically it's attention to detail
and Obsession of qualities that I'm
hearing just to make it clear like this
isn't just like a tiny team just like
pushing stuff out
I imagine most Founders would be like
yes I would love to like we are going to
focus on quality we'll make sure
everything looks great in reality it
always is kind of this trade-off against
other things they could be doing yep
what do you think folks can do to help
keep that level quality is it just like
one person being obsessed and just
reviewing everything like a Founder is
like someone having someone like you
that's just like very detail-oriented
just like review everything how do you
actually execute that when you have a
thousand things to do 100 I would say
there's one of two approaches and you
sort of articulated them here one is you
can have the founder that is the Avatar
of quality who is just like relentlessly
being like Hey we're gonna see the 15
minute check yes we're going through it
yes I'm going to send you a copy of this
email and someone else going to click
every Link in it and make sure they're
not broken or you can have someone else
be the Avatar of that who is in the
company I would say
in many of the companies I have worked
at that has been me because I've been
sort of the like marketing human who
cares but it doesn't have to be a
marketing person it can be someone on
product it can be honestly even someone
on customer success if you're willing to
let them uh provide their feedback on
the way that you're showing up in the
world but you should because they have
fantastic insights
there just needs to be someone and I
think building that into how you
interview can be very helpful as well so
finding people who understand those
trade-offs and that balance and who are
willing to put in the extra 15 minutes
but aren't going to spend like an extra
week trying to like obsessively QA
everything you don't want to go that far
just who have that sort of bent towards
detail uh can be very helpful also just
make yourself a checklist like it
doesn't have to be complicated every
time we put out a blog post these are
the three things we're going to do every
time we send out an email like it needs
to be seen by at least one other person
none of this is rocket science you just
need to make a little process for
yourself and then it can be very fast
and lightweight but the the Dividends
are worth it I think I like how simple
this is just to look like a bigger
company is just pay attention and focus
on the little things like it's not a big
old thing there are some bigger things
you can do if you really need to my uh
my favorite silly example of this is
airtable back in the day got kind of
roasted on Twitter for having Billboards
that were not super specific about like
a specific problem or whatever they're
just Billboards that we had out and
everyone was like this makes no sense
why are you doing if you don't
understand they were actually super
effective for us because we had a
different goal than everyone thought
that we did for us it was all about
signaling to some very large companies
that we were a legitimate and large
enough company that they could trust and
we had geographical concentration in
specific areas because we were in like
the fashion industry the media industry
in New York we knew exactly where all of
their like offices were and we knew if
they saw our Billboards walking to work
and then got the I the request to it
like for the budget in order to you know
pay six figures for airtable they were
more likely to be like oh it's not just
some weird startup we never heard of
like oh I've seen that billboard they
must be legitimate and that sounds
really silly but like it wasn't actually
that expensive uh we got mostly Remnant
inventory which is like at the end of a
particular buying cycle sometimes they
haven't fully sold everything and you
can get the like slightly less good ones
that are still maybe where you want them
for really really cheap and everyone
thinks that you only buy Billboards if
you're huge so that's small signaling
thing was a way for us to make sure that
we remove some of the risk of not being
able to close deals because we were so
small right so you can get kind of
creative about it most of the time
you're not going to do that most of the
time it's like reread your emails but
you can also sort of push it even
further if you need to
what is that full rough cost of
billboards like is there like because I
think people think about Billboards and
like it's hard to even know what they
cost like what's like a number it really
really depends so I'm hesitant to give
you a number because which Metro you're
in like it ranges vastly I would say you
can expect that some of that inventory
is in like the low thousands of dollars
which is way lower than you might expect
for like one billboard yeah so you don't
need to get a million right like and I'm
not suggesting you go get one on like
101. good luck to you on that that's
expensive but you can get one that's you
know in a reasonable neighborhood in New
York for way less money than you might
expect if you're willing to do remnant
are you hiring or on the flip side are
you looking for a new opportunity well
either way check out lennysjobs.com
Talent
you're a hiring manager you can sign up
and get access to hundreds of hand
curated people who are open to New
Opportunities thousands of people apply
to join this Collective and I personally
review and accept just about 10 of them
you won't find a better place to hire
product managers and growth leaders join
almost 100 other companies who are
actively hiring through this Collective
and if you're looking around for a newer
opportunity actively or passively join
the collective it's free you can be
anonymous and you can even hide yourself
from specific companies you can also
leave anytime and you'll only hear from
companies that you want to hear from
check out lennysjobs.com Talent
following this thread a bit my next
question is and this may be the answer
is when you think about air tables
growth strategic tactics over time
what would you say or one or two or
three of the most impactful marketing or
growth tactics yeah work best over or
Diamond maybe Billboards are one of them
I wouldn't say they were the highest Roi
but they are certainly one of the more
interesting things that we did they were
they were useful don't get me wrong but
I think maybe some other ones are more
interesting the boring answer that I
will caveat this with is that one of the
pieces of our acquisition Playbook was
very standard that did work quite well
was like some unconventionally targeted
Facebook ads that era is over so like
don't expect that that is going to work
for your B2B business now because that
that's totally changed and when you say
unconventional what do you mean we spent
a lot of time thinking about a
psychographic profile for our users so
the challenge of airtable is that you
can use it for anything uh it can be
used in every Department within an
organization it can be used for personal
stuff like you name it it has a use
because you're functionally building
your own software and you can build
software for anything unfortunately if
you go out to the market with a message
of like build your own software the vast
majority of people are like I don't want
to do that that sounds hard that sounds
stupid no and so we couldn't really use
like super generic messaging but to go
really specific into verticals which we
did end up ultimately doing didn't give
us sort of the broad coverage to go find
new opportunities like you go really
deep into one particular vertical or two
particular verticals at a time with a
small team but then we weren't surfacing
new opportunities that might be even
more important so we tried to balance
that like vertical specific work that we
did with also trying to find this type
of person who we had discovered uh was
going to be the best Champion for us and
this is like a sort of tinkerer persona
someone who likes new technology they
like putting together the Lego building
blocks of things and you couldn't really
find like tinkerers magazine there's not
like a place those people hang out they
don't just have one title it's a
psychographic profile as a type of
person that could have many different
um
many many different roles and so in fact
it doesn't let you like Facebook doesn't
let you do that anymore no no you can't
Target based on like they have a
tinkerer mentality unfortunately okay
yeah but what you can do is you can say
that type of person often likes these
types of media uh you know we've heard
that they often are really into these
podcasts so they're really into you know
reading about this type of personal
development and often that is associated
with people who have these like broad
set of roles but have this typical
mentality right so we would find sort of
clusters as like interests that people
might have that often were shared by
those people and do targeting around
that and then when that worked look
alike based on it did not expect fake
pick ads is one of these answers so
that's interesting no and it's not it's
not a good idea anymore don't don't do
it now back in the day it was great now
I would not recommend but I have some
unconventional ones that I I can suggest
that are uh Facebook there's a few
different things but I want to give some
context first for people who are not as
familiar with like your table's business
because they do think these are really
helpful pieces of contacts the first is
because of the types of industries that
we are often very successful in
had like a very similar Network effect
that we would see where like basically
it was within specific professions we
would see people who in order to
distinguish themselves in that job
market uh would build a brand around the
tools that they used essentially we
found different ways to sort of
accelerate the process of identifying
those roles whereas like really really
helpful to build a brand for yourself so
that you could hop around to different
jobs more quickly accelerate your
process Etc and thus bring along a tool
with you and evangelize for it a lot so
that's one sort of set of things we were
trying to achieve the second set of
things we were trying to achieve that's
also useful context here is although
industry virality was really important
for us even more important with inside
of company virality that was like the
real superpower of airtable we go from
like 10 people to a thousand people in a
year
and so we were always looking for ways
to make that happen within companies uh
in more and more efficient ways and then
the third piece here is no one had a
good generic explanation of airtable
that worked for everybody this is
perhaps partially my fault as like you
know marketing uh but it's also the
fault of the fact that like the market
was not ready for the good generic
explanation to mean anything like I
mentioned before like people just did
not care about the generic explanation
and the magic Verity was always seen in
its specificity
so we knew if we can get to the right
people and we can connect the dots to
them to the correct use case so they
like want to go and evangelize to
improve their careers
they will do that both externally and
within their companies and more
importantly within the companies they'll
be able to go to their friends and say
Hey you know I'm using your table as a
Content calendar but you you have a ux
research problem and I understand our
table enough that I can like help you
build a system and now I'm a superhero
internally because I like helped you
build this whole new thing look at me
I'm amazing and they suddenly have like
fully done a sales pitch for airtable
without us having to do any work or
understand their use case which is great
and very necessary when you are as
horizontal as we are so we had to figure
out essentially
how do we catalyze that word of mouth
and build Champions at scale all that is
to say the two sort of interesting
things that we did were all around that
in the very early days what that meant
in practice was we literally had a slack
integration that we pulled in a whole
bunch of information about anyone who
signed up for airtable including their
title the like the company that they
worked at Etc and literally would sit
there and like cut a little button in
each of the records that came in that
would allow us to email them immediately
if we had decided that they might be
someone we want to talk to and we set up
this whole automated system so that it
would take like two seconds to reach out
to a ton of different people being like
hey I would really love to get your
feedback and help make sure you're as
successful as possible on your tubal
this is not scalable in the long term
because there's a whole bunch of sending
emails and doing meetings but what it
meant is that we were able to start
building our mental model for what these
Champions look like in practice by
finding sort of the patterns across them
and building the foundations what
ultimately became our customer success
motion very early
and then we were able to sort of like
say okay we found like five people who
have a Content Calendar use case with
this type of title and now we'll be able
to go like run an ad campaign based on
that we can build a bunch of templates
based on that here's all these different
hooks we can use because we know this is
what a champion can look like in a way
that was not going to be obvious if we
hadn't talked to a ton of people so it
seems really unobvious as like an
investment per se but tremendous number
of human hours going into just like
having an efficient way to talk to as
many people as possible to build those
mental models that's number one that is
fascinating so essentially you weren't
even sure who would be excited about
airtable
part of this is like figure out the
personas and groups of people that we
believe are the right target to kind of
encourage and help support and then part
of that is get it spreading within a
company once you figure out these folks
within a company
it's such a cool idea to just like have
a feed of like I imagine this bot had
certain attributes of the person like
here's the company they work out here's
how big it is and then they talk about
like there's a mention of what they're
using it for is that is that part of
this ideally though we don't we were
always very privacy minded so we
couldn't actually get much information
about what they were doing in airtable
we could never see their data because
that would be a tremendous like failure
of trust to go back to what we were
talking about before so a lot of this we
would have guesses and maybe we could
see that they'd use certain templates
but we didn't otherwise really know and
it was part of the reason why we wanted
to talk to them in the first place the
second reason is that if we could talk
to them early we could help them build
their first space and from there if they
were successful they would have the
tools to go and help other people within
their organization so if we catch them
at the beginning make sure one person
was successful by over investing in them
then they essentially became like
support for everybody else
I should also clarify these were not
necessarily people who were going to be
the buyers the buyers and the Champions
here look very very different for
airtable which is a really interesting
uh an interesting Dynamic that many
companies do not have but for us the
person who is going to like sit down
with a glass of wine on a Friday and
build an airtable base was not the
person who had the budget who's going to
pay for this thing and so we weren't
initially looking for buyers we were
looking for champions in part so that we
could then go to I.T you know six months
down the line and be like look
you have 500 people using this product
it's been very useful for them it is
time for you to pay now
not sure it loved those conversations
but they were really effective for us
and meant that it was very very easy to
sell fascinating it makes me think a lot
about the product let sales movement and
how this is essentially that but even
earlier because it's people just signed
up and they're just helping them be
successful versus like this company's
got 14 people using I should go try to
sell them on an Enterprise contract
essentially this was a tool to help you
figure out how to like basically scaling
customer success and helping you
prioritize who to go after and being
very Hands-On with the strongest
potential future big buyers exactly and
I think what's interesting here is it
helped us sort of bootstrap two things
one was to your point like building out
the personas and champions and so on and
and ultimately there's more scalable
ways to sort of reach those people in
the long run but secondarily it also
helped us deal with like a real product
education problem that we had in the
early days because really complicated
airtable unfortunately has two education
issues that it needs to solve it's not
just how do I put the Lego blocks
together it is also how do I design a
piece of software and a workflow and
unfortunately if you're selling to a
Content marketing manager or a ux
researcher there's no guarantee that
they know how to make a workflow most
software is opinionated and it does that
work for you and you like it either
works for you or doesn't and like maybe
you're frustrated about what it forces
you to do in order to work but you can't
really control it which means when
suddenly you have the ability to create
whatever workflow that you want there's
actually some education that needs to go
into it in order to be able to make that
successful it's not enough to just make
an airtable base pretty or that
functions you can't get your team to use
it effectively if it doesn't fit into
the broader context of the organization
it's still going to fail and so a lot of
this was us figuring out like okay how
do we help these people not only use our
product but like build something that is
going to be durable so that we do see
that growth so they don't see it as a
failure so it doesn't fail at that
second order moment when it starts to
get spread out to more people
it's a really good tactic for any SAS
product that just just is hard to
understand and needs like your table had
both problems like I don't know what
this is for and I don't know exactly how
it's going to fit into my workflow
imagine most companies still have to
deal with both those problems hopefully
not hopefully not but once you actually
get in with folks it's very difficult to
remove it right so like suddenly your
retention rates are incredible your word
of mouth is incredible if you're willing
to do that initial work a lot of people
think that airtable was like a pure
product-led Growth Company and and
missed that like huge customer success
component that was always very very
important in the early days
um and that helped us ultimately move
more towards that plg motion for a while
but was essential to getting it set up
in the first place fascinating the other
one that we did was dated to this
Champions at scale was we spent a
hilarious amount of money on really
fancy swag I know this sounds silly but
like branded airpods level of fancy swag
admittedly more people are in the office
back then now they are more remote and
this would not work as well but back in
the day if you gave people something
really good like not a pen or a sticker
really good they would show enough to
absolutely everyone that they talked to
because they were so excited they got
branded airpods people would ask about
it walking by their desks it sounds so
like trivial but for that like you know
a couple hundred bucks that we spent
knowing like hey this person's already a
champion and if someone asks them
they're going to give a really good
pitch
totally worth it sometimes better to not
skimp on swag hard to measure very
effective
that's a great tip and it connects to
the general idea of fighter Champions
and just do a lot to make sure they're
successful excited when evangelize and
an airpod here and there feels like a
really good Roi investment well it's for
us anything else along those lines I
think those are the big ones that I
would highlight the only other small
note I would make from a process
perspective is if you are going to over
invest in customer success which I
recommend make sure that you have also
set up a process to take the insights
that your customer success people are
coming up with and turn them into as
much content as you can because that's
where you're going to find scale in the
long run so for us what that meant was
we would talk to a bunch of customers
and customer success would have like
helps them build bases and then we would
create templates so we're not exact
copies because we're not trying to steal
their intellectual property we would say
like what is the fundamental workflow
here that other companies might have how
do we make a template that is useful
from this and like some blog posts that
explain it whatever else that we can
then put out into the market and the
next time a smaller company it's not a
Fortune 500 wants this sort of thing
someone can just email them that
template and we don't have to go through
this whole build process they have
something to start with if you can find
those insights and put them genuinely
into use as a little conveyor belt
it will be much easier to scale it will
be much easier to come up with genuinely
compelling content because it's coming
from your customers so they already care
about it you have strong signal that
it's going to be valuable if you already
built it for them use that to your
advantage make that into a little
machine and it makes all of the sort of
go to market that you need to do later
easier I know that you have a strong
opinion that customer success and
marketing are basically the same thing
and should be maybe one team do you
speak to that yeah this is this is my
spicy opinion but like both of them have
to do kind of the same things right they
have to identify customer needs they
have to help the the customer see your
product as a solution to those needs
they need to remove friction from the
process of getting value
they are hopefully both encouraging
those customers to share with other
people and both of them should be
engaged in translating insights from
those individuals into resources that
can help everybody they use different
tactics right like marketing is going to
use more scalable tactics customer
success is going to be in the weeds
really talking to individual people but
all of the things they care about are
actually the same thing they just use
different ways to do it and if you as a
marketer are not pretty confident in
being able to say like what I'm doing is
getting the right people to get genuine
value from this product so much so that
they want to tell other people about it
because it's going to make them look
good then like maybe figure out if
there's ways to bring more of that to
your process because it will make what
you are doing more effective and frankly
there's not a better evangelist than a
person whose career you have materially
helped to improve based on like matching
the right person to the solution so that
they can have more impact at their
company uh so much that one of my
unofficial metrics for both marketing
and customer success at airtable
unofficial was like how many people
we've gotten promoted for using the
product I had like sort of a running
tally of those people and
I knew if we were getting those at the
major accounts we were trying to win
like something something good was
happening and we were going to be
successful with really large deals so
curious how you tracked that I guess you
just type in with them occasionally no I
had my csn's literally like they had
really strong relationships we were we
were actually tracking it it was a
little embarrassing but it worked really
well I love it the great kpi it's like
dating apps and how many people get
married I guess exactly zooming out a
little bit you advise a lot of companies
on marketing customer success growth and
things like that maybe there's like a
two-part question and see where you want
to take it what is just what are
activities at marketing and growth and
customer success teams often do that are
impactful and consistently impactful
things that you think startups should
invest in
that maybe they aren't or they already
aren't they should definitely keep doing
this and on the flip side things that
don't work
things that maybe they should avoid and
yeah so maybe let's start there and
there's gonna be a follow
cool okay I'm going to start with things
to avoid because I try and not to make
too many blanket statements on this but
I have a couple that I am willing to
make so like this is all with the caveat
the channel Market fit is really real
and like sometimes these things might
work for you don't like discount just
because I say that they don't work for
me there are certain types of like
flashy event marketing and sponsorships
that you will get relentlessly invited
to do that will seem like they're going
to be really great for signaling
purposes or for leads or whatever and
like they're almost always a waste of
your time unless you are in an industry
where you desperately need to get to
like a trade show because that's where
everyone hangs out at that point like
yeah of course you're gonna have to go
do that but if you're in like more
standard B2B software that's not really
a thing there are better ways to get in
front of those people than having your
logo out there all like that doesn't
tell them anything maybe you get a
branded session at the the conference or
whatever but who's gonna go to that
branded session probably not that many
people and then you will spend so much
money and gotten nothing for it go to
the event do not fund your money on the
sponsorship it's stupid
um and then the second one uh which is
definitely
a very spicy opinion but I'm gonna go
there yo there a lot of people
think that like the epitome of product
marketing is creating your own category
and
while I agree that it is useful to have
strong differentiators because it is
I think creating a category like getting
a new thing in Gartner or whatever is
often a waste of your time it is a huge
lift absolutely enormous particularly in
Beauty SAS and
I'm not always sure that it's helpful to
have like your super teeny tiny little
niche over here where you're like oh we
have no competitors like that's not
actually how Buyers work it's not really
worth it that said there are things you
can do that feel like category creation
that are actually effective and that I
do think make more sense and
specifically if you can elevate a
profession
instead of a category that can make way
more sense so the great example of this
is a gain site creating customer success
or like many companies all together
carving out devops or like rebranding
devops to be a thing that was suddenly a
sexy job to have and I think that's
valuable because a job is an identity
and people will fight for an identity
right a category of software is like a
line item on your budget no one is
excited about that but people are very
excited about their job being meaningful
and their job being important and being
taken seriously and so if you could hold
up an uh either an existing or a brand
new job and say like this is really
important or much broader business
metrics whatever else uh we're going to
create Community for those people to
come together and it's all about the job
and not about you that can be very
powerful and they'll take them with you
you become like part of the identity of
that career amazing do that for sure but
like the Gartner square there's some
opportunities for that where it makes me
sense a lot of the times it doesn't
don't do that amazing I love that uh is
there more you wanted to add there no
okay that's enough fun not to do what
this reminds me of broadly is just stay
focused on the customer and their
problems right like don't obsess with
who you are it's
who are you selling to and how will you
make their life better reminds me of
this old uh idea from Kathy Sierra dude
is that ring a bell where you make your
yeah you make your customer a superhero
you want them to be like a superhero and
if they work as a superhero and that's
yeah that sounds like that's essentially
what you did with their table a lot of
these companies you worked with that
that is always the goal like how can you
make them the hero of the story and not
you because no one cares about your
company what they care about is
themselves frankly are there any
products or companies you think of of
tap your head that are really good at
this that are just like the nailed this
yeah that's a good question certainly
the two that I mentioned the sort of
like helped Rebrand some of the uh the
professions so like the game sites of
the world I'm blanking a little bit on
the ones that have done this for devops
really effectively but there's certainly
some that have maybe data dog yeah
datadog has done a pretty good job of
that I think where I get excited is when
the companies do this in a way that
feels less self-serving or less
obviously self-serving and that means
that sometimes you have to be willing to
invest in things that will not have like
super obviously immediate Roi for you
but they will for the community and for
building the community oh actually one
really good example I think like notion
has actually done a pretty good job of
this people are really really invested
in and the templates that they create
because it feels like you're not pushing
notion you're pushing like the the
beautiful creation that you have to
solve a problem I think they've done a
really nice job on that process and
several of their competitors I think
have done a pretty decent job as well
but they certainly come to avoid
thinking of templates
I know airtable kind of known for
templates being any mentioned this being
a big part of the success and I imagine
a lot of companies now are just creating
template left and right because they
imagine that's the core what help a lot
of these companies notion being an
example what is your take on the power
and importance of templates or software
I think they can be tremendously helpful
if you were horizontal because they
helped to narrow the surface area for a
user so they understand how to connect
the dots between like their problem and
your product and if it is not obvious to
someone how they can solve a specific
problem they're gonna like be like oh
hey that seems really cool when I think
of something I'll definitely come back
and then you have lost them and so if
you can be like here are three templates
that a person like you might be excited
about that can be really helpful where
people sometimes get confused about
templates or have the wrong expectations
about templates is when they think that
templates are going to be an acquisition
mechanism and they don't build in the
foundation that is sorry for that to be
true so a lot of people think that
templates were what drove like air
tables top of funnel that is not the
case I I was having a conversation with
someone who worked a lot on SEO at
airtable in the much later days and and
sort of laughing over the fact that
people thought that was a big source of
traffic because it was not we did not
optimize them for that good luck finding
them in search most of the time like not
at all useful where they were helpful
you know narrowing that surface area
helping with sort of matching patterns
helping people understand how the
product worked super helpful expansion
within companies tremendously useful but
they were not a top of funnel mechanism
for us because we didn't put the work in
to do that like we did not have an SEO
engine they weren't we weren't zapier
zapier has done a great job with that
they get a ton of traffic because they
built it as a programmatic SEO play but
you have to be clear about what your
goals are and what problem they are
solving because otherwise it is very
easy to be like I'll just build a bunch
of templates and then all of the leads
will appear and like that's that's not
going to happen in unless you invest in
a lot more than at least airtable did so
it can be useful to build them know what
you're doing it for and how you're going
to measure it or otherwise you will
waste your time do you think your table
could have taken advantage of that
topple funnel approach if they invested
from an SEO perspective or do you think
it wasn't an opportunity I think it
could have been we would have needed to
hire more humans airtable was an
incredibly lean team for a very very
long time from like 2015 when I joined
until
2017 or 2018 like we had like
barely 50 people like it was small for
many many years and so we had to make
really difficult choices about what to
prioritize and what not to prioritize
should we have hired more people and
done more things like I would argue in
retrospect absolutely yes there were
opportunities that were left on the
table but in early days like you you
leave good opportunities because you
have to focus on other things so got it
and so a takeaway here's templates could
be really useful for customer success
versus SEO top of funnel right that's
kind of where they became powerful still
maybe helpful like maybe for you it
makes sense to do the SEO play just know
that that is not a small play it is an
investment it is not and not just like
have some people make some templates you
got to do way more than just that it's
not going to be sufficient final
potential question depending on where
this goes and I'm curious how spicy this
answer gets oh boy it's around launches
NPR and I work with a lot of startups I
imagine Founders are always trying to
plan a launch the pr
I'm curious your take on the value of
investing a bunch of resources in a big
launch the value of just getting PR as
an early stage startup yeah so just
getting PR is not a good goal I know
that's like been well stated in the
market but just to reiterate it like
most of the time PR is not going to get
you leads or users it's just not and you
have to think about like
when you are creating a launch or doing
a piece of PR what are the breadcrumbs
that bring someone back to something
that can actually convert if you have
your big Tech crunch piece and it's
super exciting it says all these great
things about you and it like maybe links
to you once somewhere in the 12th
paragraph or whatever how many people
are actually going to click on that link
not that many people how many people are
gonna like read that and remember to go
Google it not as many as you want okay
there's gonna be so much coming out of
the funnel it is not like a useful
acquisition mechanism what it is good
for is credibility and that's where if
you have really clear goals and you know
how you're going to leverage the asset
of a piece of PR coverage then it can be
helpful to you so the two goals I always
recommend to Founders when thinking
about using PR are either
hiring
or maybe improving the response rate for
your cold outbound those are the two
that I think make the most sense because
in both cases they have a different
distribution mechanism right in hiring
you're going to like include that in an
email that you're sending to a candidate
and so it's going to increase the
likelihood that they take you seriously
and get excited about the company and
maybe actually end up ultimately joining
your team cold outbound you're using it
as credibility to say like Hey we're a
real company you can trust great uh both
of those things are all emails that you
are proactively sending you know exactly
who they're going to and you know that
that asset is going to have hopefully
the impact that you're looking for and
you can kind of measure whether it makes
a difference or not but just getting a
piece of PR to get a piece of PR is like
it'll help with your internal morale I'm
not sure it's going to do much else for
you uh so happily clear goals and have
realistic goals where you will be
disappointed launches however do not
need to just be about PR in fact in many
cases PR is a distraction and instead
you can have not just one big launch but
like a series of launches that allow you
to stay top of mind to create momentum
with your users and to show up in lots
of different places because audiences
respond to novelty gives them a reason
to care about your company and so like
yeah have your big annual launch or
whatever but also have one two months
from then another one and another one
find ways to use that novelty to your
advantage and to get into communities
that you think are going to be good fits
for your company
I love that advice
any final thoughts before we get to our
very exciting lightning round
mostly just like all of this is easier
if you talk to your customers more so
spend like
build a system for yourself that will
allow you to have those touch points
that's not just like making everyone
answer customer support tickets though I
do think that is a great idea because it
gives so much empathy and it's really
helpful like you as a Founder if you're
a founder or a product manager or
whatever else should find a way to get
that on your calendar like weekly or
monthly go talk to people it makes it
better you will have a better mental
model the other thing is like strongly
consider investing in customer success
if you are a B2B company early your
table had it before sales which is a
very unconventional approach but early
is worth it it has huge dividends if you
actually listen to them if you're not
going to listen to them though don't
don't hire them because that's sad
I have followed questions and on the
customers piece say someone wants to
invest in customer success is there a
resource or person or anything that you
could Point folks to to understand and
think about how to do this well there's
a lot for people within that profession
there's not as much for Founders out
there right now unfortunately this is an
area that I very eagerly am looking for
more resources to share with people
minimally I'll say if you care about
this like send me a message I will I
will give you some advice
um all of our industry will be better if
there are more people working on
customer success so like I will help you
send me a note otherwise I'll try and
dig out some other things and maybe you
can share them but uh there's not a ton
so people in customer success please
share your learnings more with Founders
all of us would like to see it yeah I've
actually been looking for someone to
write a guest Post in the newsletter
about just how to set up a customer
success team and so for listening you
could be that person uh yeah I I have um
some people that I will not it put on
the spot right now that I will send your
way that I think amazing okay let's make
this happen yeah and then I wanted to
ask the question the first piece of
advice which is Founders talk to the
customers more often is there like one
tactical piece of advice you could
recommend for how to do that yeah to
like find a customer how to set it up
consistently totally the simplest way to
do this is to write a template email for
yourself that you can send out very
easily that essentially says like hey
thank you so much for using the product
I would really love to hear about your
experience so far and get your feedback
do you have 10 minutes to talk on the
phone
um I know it's important that it's on
the phone and not a survey because you
get way more Instinct from unstructured
conversation than you're gonna get from
like sending them three you know three
things in a Google survey set it up come
up with a hypothesis of the type of
person that you want to talk to and then
like run a query against your database
find someone and send like three of
those emails with you and it's not like
exciting but you can automate most of it
and it will be helpful none of this
stuff has to be complicated you just
gotta have a system great advice with
that we've reached our very exciting
lightning round I've got six questions
for you I'm gonna go through them pretty
quick whatever comes to mind let's see
where it goes okay question number one
what are two or three books that you
recommend most to other people okay I
hate this question because I take pride
in making highly targeted
recommendations but I will do it anyway
so I'm pretty sure you mostly talk to
product and growth people right now
obviously uh AI is a big topic of
conversation so here are two books that
will enrich your mental model for
artificial intelligence and encourage
you to think about it from different
perspectives the first one a little bit
academic I highly recommend it though
it's a book called Computing taste by
Nick Siever he's a professor of
anthropology and he did this study of
people and companies who build music
recognitions algorithms and it's a
really interesting uh Book for a bunch
of reasons including that it's a sort of
like academic take on both Tech culture
and more specifically the unspoken and
underlying assumptions that many workers
who are building in this Faith have it
can be a little spicy and uncomfortable
for a person in Tech to read but I think
it is a fascinating perspective uh and
very relevant to the stuff that's going
on on Ari right now so go check it out
Computing taste by Nick Siever the
second is a fiction book but um the
ancillary Justice series by Anne Leckie
it's about a spaceship AI that ends up
separated from its ship and trapped in a
body I'm gonna leave it at that worth
reading for a different way of thinking
about AI
I think we need a Sol full episode on
book recommendations these are amazing
let's keep going so what's another
podcast of yours that you love to listen
to other than this podcast probably
either happiness lab or gastropod I love
food and also psychology one of those
two interesting okay we'll keep going
favorite recent movie or TV show movie
everything everywhere all at once uh and
TV show there's a Korean drama called
extraordinary attorney Wu that I really
enjoyed favorite interview question that
you like to ask yeah okay so this one is
related to customer success it's my
favorite question of all people hate it
sorry but I like to ask anyone who's
going to be in a customer facing role
who needs to be able to keep their cool
and also learn stuff on the Fly and
respond to customers to solve a like an
unfamiliar problem using zapier and they
can like use the internet to look things
up whatever but I basically like lay out
for them a problem that I as the
customer want to to solve and have them
build it for me live this both
is surprising for most people so you get
to see how they respond to an unfamiliar
situation which every client will give
you at some point and it shows how they
learn things in a very concrete way
which is really interesting so check it
out it works really well for customer
success I've heard that one before
fascinating
top five SAS products that you enjoy and
airtable cannot be what okay uh then
I'll try and avoid any company that I
have worked for I really like using
figma it's nice when designers let me
play with things I've been really
enjoying working with webflow also means
that I can do stuff on my own this is
maybe spicy but I actually love Google
Docs I'm not a notion stand sorry but
Google Docs is like my best friend yeah
and then there is a personal CRM company
that I invested in so sorry maybe this
is not allowed but called clay and it is
like the only way I've ever been able to
keep track of my relationships in a real
way please
and then
I don't know if I love it but I I use
zoom so much that I feel like I must say
it because I spend so much of my time on
it and it's categorically better than
Google me
final question favorite book course
article any sort of resource and
marketing yeah non-marketers can learn
from okay it's a newsletter does that
work absolutely amazing okay so there is
a specialist VC firm called mkt1 it's
written by Emily Kramer and Kathleen ice
stretch sorry if I pronounced your last
name there on Kaylee Kathleen uh it's
all about marketing they are marketing
experts and operators who now invest but
they make the best Frameworks that you
can immediately apply and there's like
templates and all sorts of like super
super tactical stuff which a lot of
tactical marketing content is terrible
because it's actually content marketing
for some bad platform theirs is not it
is genuinely good go check it out a huge
fan Emily has been on the podcast and
yeah and I look at that newsletter as
the Lenny's newsletter of marketing and
it's exactly a description it's a huge
fan great recommendation with that
zoelle thank you so much for being here
this was a lot of fun and we got through
a lot of stuff which yeah uh makes you
really happy two final questions where
can folks find you online if they want
to reach out learn more and how can
listeners be useful to you I am on
Twitter at zoelle I'm also on LinkedIn
so while agner come find me there
otherwise how can you be useful to me
mostly like go for us and believe in
customer success and talk to your users
number one because I am an avid user of
technology and I want it all to be
better number two no that's all I got
just go do those things and I will be so
happy also if you want to talk about
customer success anytime hit me up in
here I'm gonna add a couple more things
which you mentioned to me Offline that
you're hiring at block party you're
hiring gross people PMS engineers and
then you're false advising on the side
with marketing customer success anything
else you want to add there yeah
absolutely uh love advising early stage
companies especially helpful for
preseason seed usually anything plg
positioning messaging figuring out your
channels experimentation all that early
fun stuff I love it happy to help
anytime and we are hiring across all of
the teams but especially mine so if you
would like to come and do all sorts of
fun experimentation and also help people
keep people online safe come look up
block party I'd love to have you on my
team block party.com or block
partyapp.com
okay so well thank you thank you
thank you so much for listening if you
found this valuable you can subscribe to
the show on Apple podcast Spotify or
your favorite podcast app also please
consider giving us a rating or leaving a
review as that really helps other
listeners find the podcast you can find
all best episodes or learn more about
the show at lennyspodcast.com see you in
the next episode
[Music]